Adding a conferences directory. (#58)
hpc-carpentry/coordination: conferences/SC21/bof_draft.md

## Title: HPC Carpentry: Introducing New Users to HPC

## Session Leaders

 - Andrew Reid
 - Trevor Keller
 - Others?

It's possible to include a brief bio for these.

## Topic Area

 - Education

## Abstract:

> [HPC Carpentry][1] is a community and a set of lessons for introducing new

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[HPC Carpentry][1] is a community built around a set of community-contributed lessons for introducing new
```

users to cluster-based high-performance computing resources. As these resources
become more common, the need for educational resources to bring users from a
broad variety of technical backgrounds up to speed becomes more urgent. Based

> on the pedagogically sound methods of the larger [Carpentries][2] method,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
on the pedagogically well-founded methods of the larger [Carpentries][2] approach,
```

computing practitioners lead by a [steering committee][6], has developed a
number of introductory lessons for new users of HPC clusters.

### What Problem We Solve

It is almost a cliche at this point that greater and greater computational
capabilities are becoming increasingly affordable. An under-appreciated
consequence of this is that the range of backgrounds of new users of these
resources is increasingly broad, and may not include knowledge of computer
system configurations and file system layouts. There is an evident on-going
need to address the gap between the needs of these users and the capabilities
and opportunities presented by the available HPC resources.

The [HPC Carpentry][1] lessons address this gap, building on the pedagogically
sound instructional methods of the larger [Carpentries][2] community to develop
several lessons. The best-developed of these, the [HPC Intro][3] lesson, was
recently submitted to the [Carpentries Incubator][7] program, and is on track
to become an official [Carpentries][2] lesson. Other important lessons in
development include a [parallel python][4] lesson, and a lesson focusing on the

> [chapel][5] language.

Reviewer: What about the HPC Shell lesson, and I'm not sure I would highlight Chapel unless there is a serious plan to update that.

Reviewer: Also, in general, how do we acknowledge that other people are also creating lessons that are potentially of huge value to HPC Carpentry but are not under that umbrella (the [container lesson from the Pawsey Centre](https://pawseysc.github.io/singularity-containers/) is a good example)

### Goals for the BoF

During this BoF, we will gather community feedback on our progress to date, to

> ensure that we are aligned with current HPC best practices, and to help the HPC

Reviewer: What does alignment mean here? Do we plan on doing some kind of live survey (via something like [Socrative](https://www.socrative.com/))? Do we put a load of options on the table for development goals?

Carpentries development team prioritize efforts for successor lessons in light
of the changing landscape of current HPC practice.

MPI remains a very popular parallel framework, but the community of novice HPC
users may be using codes for which the MPI details are hidden, or which use
entirely different parallel frameworks. What is the right level of detail to
address parallel frameworks in the introductory and advanced levels?

There are many languages in which parallel and HPC codes are written, including
legacy Fortran codes, low-level C and C++ codes, and newer HPC codes written in
Python, Julia, or other parallel languages. How can we provide relevant
information across these communities, while retaining pedagogical rigor?

## Interactivity

Approximately 2/3 to 3/4 of the session will be interactive.

## Format of the non-audience-participation portion

Presentations by the session leaders, either with slides or walking through a
lesson.

## Commercial?

No.

## Format

The BoF will open with a presentation of the current state of the lessons,
including "pain points" identified by the development team, after which an open

> discussion will be held to solicit feedback on thees points, and the questions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
discussion will be held to solicit feedback on these points, and the questions
```

above, from the attendees.

## Prior BoFs?

An HPC Carpentry BoF was held at SC17, and an informal group of about fifteen
participants got together at SC18.

## Time, expected attendance, keywords

>  - We expect the session will last 2.5 to 3 hours.

Reviewer: According to the SC schedule ([here](https://sc21.supercomputing.org/submit/birds-feather-submissions/#section10)), you only get either 1 or 1.5 hours

a variety of HPC tools in a pedagogical context, including the design,
procurement, deployment, and maintenance of on-premise hardware,
container, and cloud systems.  This informs the lesson-development
process at many levels.

### Goals for the BoF

During this BoF, we will gather community feedback on our progress to
date, to ensure that we are helping HPC operators bring users on board,
and helping users make good use of the systems. This will help the HPC
Carpentry development team prioritize efforts for successor lessons in
light of the changing landscape of current HPC practice.

We plan discuss the following strategic topics:

1. For people who have used the existing material, we are interested in 
   positive and negative aspects of the experience.

    - Was the HPC Carpentry material used stand-alone, or in combination with other material?
    - What sequence was used? 

2. Our existing lessons are not uniformly developed, and we have many good ideas for future lessons. Where should we focus future lesson efforts?

    - Existing lessons are fine, effort should go to improving them.
    - HPC applications of new languages -- Julia, Chapel, Python.

>     - HPC frameworks -- Containers, Dask, MPI, MPI, parallel CUDA.

Reviewer 2: "MPI, MPI,"
